\Jennifer Van Wie
NMA3012 Fall 2018 
Final Project Documentation
Artist Statement & Process:
	As another year approaches, it means the present one is ending. Things we have learned we carry with us to the new year, but must not forget to move on and start fresh. The new year is always a challenge as we face new, and old challenges. All we can do is hope for a win, rather than a loss, to the year. Life seems to play as a game, with each year a new level, and sometimes all we ‘win’ is another chance. And how we will feel looking back, when we have beat all the levels, is pretty much unpredictable. Will we be excited for what’s next? Will we be upset it’s over? Will the end feel like a victory? Or will it just be another feeling of unsatisfaction?
	My name is Jennifer Van Wie and I am a student at Baruch College, graduating in the Spring of 2019. At the creation of this project I am 21 years old and attend college full time while working part time. My minor in New Media Art has led me to expand my creativity and technical skills through taking diverse classes out of my comfort zone. Throughout the class of Programming Interactivity, I have learned the complex coding behind generative art as well as every day things seen on the internet taken for granted. I have grown a new appreciation for digital and generative art as it takes time and extreme understanding of code to create the simplest of pieces. This project may look simple, but was extremely difficult and took hours out of each day to make the smallest of adjustments. 
	As you, the player, participate in this game, reflect on the maze as you would life. You must past the obstacles to get to the next year, which will be going back to the start of the new year approaching. When facing these challenges, remember that some may seem tougher than they are. Can you maneuver your way around these blocks or can you push right through to the end? Life is a cycle which the new year reminds us of. When you finish, how will you react to the end?

	The Original Concept of the project was entitled Pipes. It was to be designed by a series of pipe-like shapes using arrow keys to reach the end point. The pipes will be arranged like a maze where there are dead ends, which end the system. Each time the user can learn the pipe system better and finally reach the end point. When the endpoint is reached, there will be a ‘prize’ or a visual win screen, where something like balloons float up and down the screen. The Refined Concept of the project kept the name Pipes and is designed as a series of rectangles. Keys SWAD move the ball to get to the other side without hitting any blocks. 
	Goals throughout this project was to refine my skills and better understanding of generative art. Learning objectives were to use if and else if statements, Booleans, and arrays. I also imported sound and video libraries as well as images. This assignment gave me many challenges, which of many I have over come. However, a few tough ones forced me to rethink my project and in the end made it better. 

Inspiration:
https://www.openprocessing.org/sketch/468483
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rZ-LzS0bNoNyiZjsncL69S03HqI9bFcrXp7skUo62lc/edit?usp=sharing
https://www.openprocessing.org/sketch/521421
